.TH lastfm 1
.SH NAME
lastfmsubmitd, lastfmsubmit \- Last.fm submission daemon and helper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lastfmsubmitd
.RI [ --user\ USER ]
.RI [ --password\ PASS ]
.RI [ --debug ]
.RI [ --no-daemon ]
.br
.B lastfmsubmit
.RI [ --encoding\ ENC ]
.RI [ --artist\ ARTIST ]
.RI [ --title\ TITLE ]
.RI [ --length\ LEN ]
.RI [ --time\ STAMP ]
.RI [ --album\ ALBUM ]
.RI [ --mbid\ TRACKID ]
.RI [ --output\ FILE ]
.RI [ --debug ]
.RI [ --quiet ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lastfmsubmitd
uses the Last.fm protocol to send information about played songs
to a submission server. If network connectivity is lost or lastfmsubmitd is
shut down, it saves any unsubmitted songs to a cache.
.PP
Song information is collected from one or more music players via a FIFO. All
songs are submitted with the account information provided at startup.
.PP
.B lastfmsubmit
is a helper program meant to be invoked by music players. It
handles setting the timestamp, encoding data as UTF-8, serializing it to send
to lastfmsubmitd, and locking.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-u, \-\-user
Specify the Last.fm username.
.TP
.B \-p, \-\-password
Specify the Last.fm password. This is not secure, and is provided for testing
purposes only; please see ENVIRONMENT below.
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-debug
Log debugging information.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-no-daemon
Do not fork into the background.
.TP
.B \-e, \-\-encoding
Use a different encoding than the locale's default to read song information.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Silence any logging information that would normally be printed to stderr.
.TP
.B \-a, \-\-artist
Specify the song's artist name. Artist, title, and length are required for
lastfmsubmitd to actually submit the song.
.TP
.B \-t, \-\-title
Specify the song's title.
.TP
.B \-l, \-\-length
Specify the song's length.
.TP
.B \-i, \-\-time
Specify the time at which the song was played, formatted in UTC as '%Y-%m-%d
%H:%M:%S' (see strptime(3)). If not given, defaults to the current time.
.TP
.B \-b, \-\-album
Specify the song's album name.
.TP
.B \-m, \-\-mbid
Specify the song's MusicBrainz track ID.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-output
Write the serialized song information to a different file.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
lastfmsubmitd will read a username and password from the environment variables
LASTFM_USER and LASTFM_PASSWORD on startup. This is recommended for normal use,
as command line options are usually readable with
.IR ps (1).
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /var/run/lastfm/fifo
The named pipe (FIFO) where submissions are read.
.TP
.B /var/cache/lastfm/subs
The file where unsent submissions are saved if lastfmsubmitd is stopped.
.SH AUTHOR
Decklin Foster <decklin@red-bean.com>.
